# SEDquest
In this project, I aim to investigate a possibility of assessing a spectral irregularity coming from variability and/or multiple components. I begin with two approaches, which are 'StackSEDs' and 'QuantifySEDshape'. 


# SEDquest 1
## StackSEDs
I assume some kinds of source spectra then simulate a number of observed spectra for each source. 
Afterwards, I search for a way to characterise the difference between them. 

### Inputs
- Flux energy spectrum
- Obs time
- Collection area 
- Background model

Obs time, Collection area and Background model are necessary to achieve a reasonable statistical limitation. 




## QuantifySEDshape
I search for measuring SED irregularity. 

- Abbe value?
  

# Usage (StackSEDs)

## Prepare the IRF

### MAGIC
 - Collection area
Collection area can be generated by CollareaExtractor.C. 
Prepare Status_flute.root file, specify its path in the CollareaExtractor.C, and run it by
```
root -l CollareaExtractor.C
```
 - Background model
 Under construction.


## Run the script

Under construction. 
```
/Users/kazuma/Workspace/Torun/SEDquest/SEDgenerator_test.ipynb
```
 




# SED quest 2,3

## SEDquest2-1: Markov Chain computation for peak-detection

## SEDquest2-2: Numerical cross-check of peak-detection
### theory validation from numerical aspect
### peak-detection method validation


## SEDquest3: 





# Thoughts and discussion(20250602)
## MAGIC SED peak detected, can it be true? 
If true, we should see it somewhere again. 
Fermi range investigated. -> No significance.

### Reason 1: MAGIC was within the statistical fructuation?
Conditions are different. (the middle datapoint is more significant in MAGIC)
### Reason 2: Energy range is different.

### Reason 3: time range is different.



